[Version Control System (VCS)]
Git is a modern and widely used distributed Version Control System (VCS) in the world.
The Version Control System (VCS) allows us to monitor/track and work together with team members at the same workspace.
Git is foundation of many services like GitHub, Bitbucket and GitLab.
Git can be used privately and publicly.
➤ Features
* Open Source 
It is released under the GPL (General Public License) license.
* Scalable
It means when the number of users increases, the Git can easily handle such situations.
* Distributed
It means that instead of switching the project to another machine, we can create a "clone" of the entire repository.
Also, instead of just having one central repository that send changes to, every user has their own repository that contains the entire commit history of the project.
We do not need to connect to the remote repository; the change is just stored on local repository. If necessary, we can push these changes to a remote repository.
* Security
It uses the SHA1 (Secure Hash Function) to name and identify objects within its repository.
Files and commits are checked and retrieved by its checksum at the time of checkout.
It stores its history in such a way that the ID of particular commits depends upon the complete development history leading up to that commit.
* Speed
Git is very fast, so it can complete all the tasks in a while.
Most of the git operations are done on the local repository, so it provides a huge speed.
* Supports non-linear development
➤

[Source Code Management (SCM)]
GitHub, Bitbucket and GitLab is a Git repository hosting service.
It provides a Web-based graphical interface.
It hosts source code of project in the form of different programming languages and keeps track of the various changes made by programmers.
It supports both VCS and SCM.

[Git .vs. SVN]
⦿ Git 
It is a distributed Version Control System.
It has a cloned repository.
Git branches are familiar to work.
Git does not have a Global revision number.
⦿ SVN
It is a Centralized Version Control System.
It does not have a cloned repository.
SVN branches are a folder which exists in the repository.
SVN has a Global revision number.
